SignedTransaction and multi signature guide (#797)
scale-it/algo-builder: docs/guide/signedTransaction.md

---
layout: splash
---

# SignedTransaction

> `Runtime` can not only work with the `ExecParams` but also with `algosdk.SignedTransaction` objects. This allow for easier interaction with `algosdk` and provides more flexibility and functionality. We can create transactions and sign them using `algosdk` methods and execute them in `Runtime`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Runtime` supports transactions described as `ExecParams` and traditional `algosdk.SignedTransaction` objects. This allow for easier interaction with `algosdk` and provides more flexibility and functionality. We can create transactions and sign them using `algosdk` methods and execute them in `Runtime`. 
```

## Example

> The example shows how to send 5 algo from one account to another using `Runtime`, `Runtime.defaultAccounts()` which are predefined, funded accounts and `algosdk` to create and sign the transaction. For more details check the [algorand docs](https://developer.algorand.org/docs/sdks/javascript/#build-first-transaction).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example shows how to send 5 algo from one account to another using `Runtime`. We will use `Runtime.defaultAccounts()` which are predefined, funded accounts and `algosdk` to create and sign the transaction. For more details check the [algorand docs](https://developer.algorand.org/docs/sdks/javascript/#build-first-transaction).
```

```ts
// create runtime
const runtime = new Runtime([]);
// get two funded accounts
const [alice, bob] = runtime.defaultAccounts();
// mock suggested params
const suggestedParams = mockSuggestedParams({ totalFee: 1000 }, runtime.getRound());
// create transaction using algosdk
const transaction = algosdk.makePaymentTxnWithSuggestedParamsFromObject({
            from: alice.address, 
            to: bob.address, 
            amount: 5e6, //5 algo 
            note: undefined,
            suggestedParams: suggestedParams,
        });
// sign it and decode it to signedTransaction object
const signedTransacion = algosdk.decodeSignedTransaction(transaction.signTxn(alice.account.sk));
// submit the transaction
const confirmedTxn = runtime.executeTx([signedTransacion]);
console.log(confirmedTxn);
```
Check the example in our [tests](../../packages/runtime/test/src/guide-examples.ts).

# Multisignature

> Support of `SignedTransaction` objects in `Runtime` enables users to test their multisignatures. Again with the help of `algosdk` we can create multisignarue address, rekey an existing runtime account to this address and then sign transactions using multisignature accounts. `Runtime` verifies the signature and if its valid process the transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Support of `SignedTransaction` objects in `Runtime` enables users to test their multisignatures. Again with the help of `algosdk` we can create multisignature address, rekey an existing runtime account to this address and then sign transactions using multisignature accounts. `Runtime` verifies the signature and if it's valid, it process the transaction.
```

> Support of `SignedTransaction` objects in `Runtime` enables users to test their multisignatures. Again with the help of `algosdk` we can create multisignature address, rekey an existing runtime account to this address and then sign transactions using multisignature accounts. `Runtime` verifies the signature and if it's valid, it process the transaction.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Support of `SignedTransaction` objects in `Runtime` enables users to test their multisignatures. Again with the help of `algosdk` we can create multisignature address, rekey an existing runtime account to this address and then sign transactions using multisignature accounts. `Runtime` verifies the signature and if it's valid, it executes the transaction.
```

## Example

> This example shows how to create a multisignature address using `algosdk`, rekey an existing runtime account to multisignautre, create a transaction and sign it using multisignature. For more details check the [algorand docs](https://developer.algorand.org/docs/get-details/transactions/signatures/#multisignatures).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This example shows how to create a multisignature address using `algosdk`, rekey an existing runtime account to multisignature, create a transaction and sign it using multisignature. For more details check the [algorand docs](https://developer.algorand.org/docs/get-details/transactions/signatures/#multisignatures).
```

```ts
// create runtime
const runtime = new Runtime([]);
// get two funded accounts
const [alice, bob, charlie, elon] = runtime.defaultAccounts();
// mock suggested params
const suggestedParams = mockSuggestedParams({ totalFee: 1000 }, runtime.getRound());
// create multisignature parameters
const addrs = [bob.address, charlie.address];

>  		multiSigParams = {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
let multiSigParams = {
```

Author: fixed

 			version: 1,
 			threshold: 2,
 			addrs: addrs,

>  		};

Reviewer 4: The format here `multisigParams` look isn't good. Let change it

Reviewer: So why there is indentation?

Author: I fixed it

// create multisignature address
const multSigAddr = algosdk.multisigAddress(multiSigParams);

> // rekey alice to multi sig

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
// rekey alice to multisignature account
```

const txParam: types.AlgoTransferParam = {
    type: types.TransactionType.TransferAlgo,
    sign: types.SignType.SecretKey,
    fromAccount: alice.account,
    fromAccountAddr: alice.address,
    toAccountAddr: alice.address,
    amountMicroAlgos: 0,
    payFlags: {totalFee: 1000, rekeyTo: multSigAddr},
};
runtime.executeTx([txParam]);
// sync accounts
[alice, bob, charlie, elon] = runtime.defaultAccounts();
// create transaction using algosdk
const txn = algosdk.makePaymentTxnWithSuggestedParams(
 				alice.account.addr, // from
 				elon.account.addr, // to
 				5e6, // 5 algo
 				undefined,
 				undefined,
 				suggestedParams

>  			);

Reviewer 4: Same here. Format isn't good

Author: same as above

Author: fixed it

// Sign with first account
const rawSignedTxn = algosdk.signMultisigTransaction(
    txn,
    multiSigParams,
    bob.account.sk
).blob;
// Sign with second account
const twosigs = algosdk.appendSignMultisigTransaction(
    rawSignedTxn,
    multiSigParams,
    charlie.account.sk
).blob;
// decode the transaction
const signedTxn: SignedTransaction = algosdk.decodeSignedTransaction(twosigs);
// submit the transaction
const confirmedTxn = runtime.executeTx([signedTxn]);
console.log(confirmedTxn);
```

> Check the example in our [tests](../../packages/runtime/test/src/guide-examples.ts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Full Code

Check the example in our [tests](../../packages/runtime/test/src/guide-examples.ts).
```
